#The care of a Christian conscience Ten sermons on the 25 psalme, preached in Tewkesburie in the countie of Gloucester, By Richard Curtis.#

##Curteys, Richard, 1532?-1582.##
The care of a Christian conscience Ten sermons on the 25 psalme, preached in Tewkesburie in the countie of Gloucester, By Richard Curtis.
Curteys, Richard, 1532?-1582.

##General Summary##

**Links**

[TCP catalogue](http://www.ota.ox.ac.uk/tcp/)  • 
[HTML](http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/tcp/Texts-HTML/free/A19/A19716.html)  • 
[EPUB](http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/tcp/Texts-EPUB/free/A19/A19716.epub) • 
[Page images (Historical Texts)](https://historicaltexts.jisc.ac.uk/eebo-99846444e)

**Availability**

To the extent possible under law, the Text Creation Partnership has waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to this keyboarded and encoded edition of the work described above, according to the terms of the CC0 1.0 Public Domain Dedication (http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/). This waiver does not extend to any page images or other supplementary files associated with this work, which may be protected by copyright or other license restrictions. Please go to https://www.textcreationpartnership.org/ for more information about the project.

**Major revisions**

1. __2013-07__ __TCP__ *Assigned for keying and markup*
1. __2013-08__ __SPi Global__ *Keyed and coded from ProQuest page images*
1. __2013-12__ __Colm MacCrossan__ *Sampled and proofread*
1. __2013-12__ __Colm MacCrossan__ *Text and markup reviewed and edited*
1. __2014-03__ __pfs__ *Batch review (QC) and XML conversion*

##Content Summary##

#####Front#####
THE Care of a Chriſtian Conſcience. Ten Sermons on the 25. Pſalme, preached in Tewkeſburie in the Co
1. TO THE HONORABLE AND VERtuous Lady, the Lady Dorothee Stafford widdow, one of the Ladies of her Maieſties bed-chamber, Simon Stafford wiſheth all honor and happineſſe in this life, and in the life to come, perpetuall glorie and reſt.

#####Body#####

1. The firſt Sermon vpon the 25. Pſalme, 1.2. & 3. verſes.
1 Vnto thee, O Lord, lift I vp my ſoule.THe ſence is, Many are the ſlaunders, & great are ye iniurieThe 2. part of the firſt Sermon.Pſalm. 25.2. My God, I truſt in thee, let me not be confounded, let Pſal. 25.3. So all that hope in thee, ſhall not be aſhamed: but let them be part of confounded, that4. Shew me thy waies, O Lord, & teach me thy pathes.The Paraphraſe, that is:GRant, O Lord, that I maPſal. 25.5. Lead me forth in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my ſaluation, in thee Pſal. 25.6. Remember, O Lord, thy tender mercies, and thy louing kindneſſe: For they haue beene for 7 Remember not the ſins of my youth, nor my rebellions, but according to thy kindneſſe remember me, Pſal. 25.8. Gracious and righteous is the Lord, therefore will he teach ſinners in the way.The ſence9 Them that be meeke, will he guide in Iudgement, and teach the humble his waies.The ſence is.THey tPſal. 25.10. All the pathes of the Lord are mercy and truth, vnto ſuch as keepe his couenaunt and hiverſe 10. All the pathes of the Lord, are mercy and truth, to them that keepe his couenant and his t11 For thy name ſake, O Lord, be mercifull to mine iniquitie: for it is great.THis is a prayer of thPſal. 25.12. What man is hee that feareth the Lord? Him wil he teach the way that he ſhall chuſe.The13 His ſoule ſhall dwell at eaſe, & his ſeede ſhall inherite the land.The ſence therof is this.THey Pſal. 25.14. The ſecrete of the Lord is reuealed to them that feare him, & his couenant to giue them15 Mine eyes are euer towardes the Lord: for he will bring my feete out of the net.The ſence thereofPſal. 25. verſe 16. Turne thy face vnto me, and haue mercy vpon mee: for I am deſolate and poore.The17. The ſorrowes of my heart are enlarged, draw mee out of my troubles.The ſence is.SO great, O LordThe ſecond part of the eight Sermon.Pſal. 25.18. Looke vpon mine affliction and my trauaile, and for19. Behold mine enemies, for they are many, and they hate mee with cruell hatred.The ſence is:O LordPſalme. 25.20. Keepe my ſoule, & deliuer me, let me not be confounded; for I truſt in thee.The ſecon21. Let mine vprightnes and equitie preſerue me: for my hope is in thee.The ſence is:O Lord my God, Pſalm. 25.22. Deliuer Iſrael, O God, out of all his troubles.The 2. part of the tēth Sermon.THe Pro
1. The ſecond Sermon vpon the 25. Pſalme, the 4, 5, and 6. verſes.
1 Vnto thee, O Lord, lift I vp my ſoule.THe ſence is, Many are the ſlaunders, & great are ye iniurieThe 2. part of the firſt Sermon.Pſalm. 25.2. My God, I truſt in thee, let me not be confounded, let Pſal. 25.3. So all that hope in thee, ſhall not be aſhamed: but let them be part of confounded, that4. Shew me thy waies, O Lord, & teach me thy pathes.The Paraphraſe, that is:GRant, O Lord, that I maPſal. 25.5. Lead me forth in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my ſaluation, in thee Pſal. 25.6. Remember, O Lord, thy tender mercies, and thy louing kindneſſe: For they haue beene for 7 Remember not the ſins of my youth, nor my rebellions, but according to thy kindneſſe remember me, Pſal. 25.8. Gracious and righteous is the Lord, therefore will he teach ſinners in the way.The ſence9 Them that be meeke, will he guide in Iudgement, and teach the humble his waies.The ſence is.THey tPſal. 25.10. All the pathes of the Lord are mercy and truth, vnto ſuch as keepe his couenaunt and hiverſe 10. All the pathes of the Lord, are mercy and truth, to them that keepe his couenant and his t11 For thy name ſake, O Lord, be mercifull to mine iniquitie: for it is great.THis is a prayer of thPſal. 25.12. What man is hee that feareth the Lord? Him wil he teach the way that he ſhall chuſe.The13 His ſoule ſhall dwell at eaſe, & his ſeede ſhall inherite the land.The ſence therof is this.THey Pſal. 25.14. The ſecrete of the Lord is reuealed to them that feare him, & his couenant to giue them15 Mine eyes are euer towardes the Lord: for he will bring my feete out of the net.The ſence thereofPſal. 25. verſe 16. Turne thy face vnto me, and haue mercy vpon mee: for I am deſolate and poore.The17. The ſorrowes of my heart are enlarged, draw mee out of my troubles.The ſence is.SO great, O LordThe ſecond part of the eight Sermon.Pſal. 25.18. Looke vpon mine affliction and my trauaile, and for19. Behold mine enemies, for they are many, and they hate mee with cruell hatred.The ſence is:O LordPſalme. 25.20. Keepe my ſoule, & deliuer me, let me not be confounded; for I truſt in thee.The ſecon21. Let mine vprightnes and equitie preſerue me: for my hope is in thee.The ſence is:O Lord my God, Pſalm. 25.22. Deliuer Iſrael, O God, out of all his troubles.The 2. part of the tēth Sermon.THe Pro
1. The third Sermon vpon the 25. Pſalme, the 7, and 8. verſes.
1 Vnto thee, O Lord, lift I vp my ſoule.THe ſence is, Many are the ſlaunders, & great are ye iniurieThe 2. part of the firſt Sermon.Pſalm. 25.2. My God, I truſt in thee, let me not be confounded, let Pſal. 25.3. So all that hope in thee, ſhall not be aſhamed: but let them be part of confounded, that4. Shew me thy waies, O Lord, & teach me thy pathes.The Paraphraſe, that is:GRant, O Lord, that I maPſal. 25.5. Lead me forth in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my ſaluation, in thee Pſal. 25.6. Remember, O Lord, thy tender mercies, and thy louing kindneſſe: For they haue beene for 7 Remember not the ſins of my youth, nor my rebellions, but according to thy kindneſſe remember me, Pſal. 25.8. Gracious and righteous is the Lord, therefore will he teach ſinners in the way.The ſence9 Them that be meeke, will he guide in Iudgement, and teach the humble his waies.The ſence is.THey tPſal. 25.10. All the pathes of the Lord are mercy and truth, vnto ſuch as keepe his couenaunt and hiverſe 10. All the pathes of the Lord, are mercy and truth, to them that keepe his couenant and his t11 For thy name ſake, O Lord, be mercifull to mine iniquitie: for it is great.THis is a prayer of thPſal. 25.12. What man is hee that feareth the Lord? Him wil he teach the way that he ſhall chuſe.The13 His ſoule ſhall dwell at eaſe, & his ſeede ſhall inherite the land.The ſence therof is this.THey Pſal. 25.14. The ſecrete of the Lord is reuealed to them that feare him, & his couenant to giue them15 Mine eyes are euer towardes the Lord: for he will bring my feete out of the net.The ſence thereofPſal. 25. verſe 16. Turne thy face vnto me, and haue mercy vpon mee: for I am deſolate and poore.The17. The ſorrowes of my heart are enlarged, draw mee out of my troubles.The ſence is.SO great, O LordThe ſecond part of the eight Sermon.Pſal. 25.18. Looke vpon mine affliction and my trauaile, and for19. Behold mine enemies, for they are many, and they hate mee with cruell hatred.The ſence is:O LordPſalme. 25.20. Keepe my ſoule, & deliuer me, let me not be confounded; for I truſt in thee.The ſecon21. Let mine vprightnes and equitie preſerue me: for my hope is in thee.The ſence is:O Lord my God, Pſalm. 25.22. Deliuer Iſrael, O God, out of all his troubles.The 2. part of the tēth Sermon.THe Pro
1. The fourth Sermon vpon the 25. Pſalme, the 9. and 10. verſes.
1 Vnto thee, O Lord, lift I vp my ſoule.THe ſence is, Many are the ſlaunders, & great are ye iniurieThe 2. part of the firſt Sermon.Pſalm. 25.2. My God, I truſt in thee, let me not be confounded, let Pſal. 25.3. So all that hope in thee, ſhall not be aſhamed: but let them be part of confounded, that4. Shew me thy waies, O Lord, & teach me thy pathes.The Paraphraſe, that is:GRant, O Lord, that I maPſal. 25.5. Lead me forth in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my ſaluation, in thee Pſal. 25.6. Remember, O Lord, thy tender mercies, and thy louing kindneſſe: For they haue beene for 7 Remember not the ſins of my youth, nor my rebellions, but according to thy kindneſſe remember me, Pſal. 25.8. Gracious and righteous is the Lord, therefore will he teach ſinners in the way.The ſence9 Them that be meeke, will he guide in Iudgement, and teach the humble his waies.The ſence is.THey tPſal. 25.10. All the pathes of the Lord are mercy and truth, vnto ſuch as keepe his couenaunt and hiverſe 10. All the pathes of the Lord, are mercy and truth, to them that keepe his couenant and his t11 For thy name ſake, O Lord, be mercifull to mine iniquitie: for it is great.THis is a prayer of thPſal. 25.12. What man is hee that feareth the Lord? Him wil he teach the way that he ſhall chuſe.The13 His ſoule ſhall dwell at eaſe, & his ſeede ſhall inherite the land.The ſence therof is this.THey Pſal. 25.14. The ſecrete of the Lord is reuealed to them that feare him, & his couenant to giue them15 Mine eyes are euer towardes the Lord: for he will bring my feete out of the net.The ſence thereofPſal. 25. verſe 16. Turne thy face vnto me, and haue mercy vpon mee: for I am deſolate and poore.The17. The ſorrowes of my heart are enlarged, draw mee out of my troubles.The ſence is.SO great, O LordThe ſecond part of the eight Sermon.Pſal. 25.18. Looke vpon mine affliction and my trauaile, and for19. Behold mine enemies, for they are many, and they hate mee with cruell hatred.The ſence is:O LordPſalme. 25.20. Keepe my ſoule, & deliuer me, let me not be confounded; for I truſt in thee.The ſecon21. Let mine vprightnes and equitie preſerue me: for my hope is in thee.The ſence is:O Lord my God, Pſalm. 25.22. Deliuer Iſrael, O God, out of all his troubles.The 2. part of the tēth Sermon.THe Pro
1. The fifth Sermon vpon the 25. Pſalme, the 11, and 12. verſes.
1 Vnto thee, O Lord, lift I vp my ſoule.THe ſence is, Many are the ſlaunders, & great are ye iniurieThe 2. part of the firſt Sermon.Pſalm. 25.2. My God, I truſt in thee, let me not be confounded, let Pſal. 25.3. So all that hope in thee, ſhall not be aſhamed: but let them be part of confounded, that4. Shew me thy waies, O Lord, & teach me thy pathes.The Paraphraſe, that is:GRant, O Lord, that I maPſal. 25.5. Lead me forth in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my ſaluation, in thee Pſal. 25.6. Remember, O Lord, thy tender mercies, and thy louing kindneſſe: For they haue beene for 7 Remember not the ſins of my youth, nor my rebellions, but according to thy kindneſſe remember me, Pſal. 25.8. Gracious and righteous is the Lord, therefore will he teach ſinners in the way.The ſence9 Them that be meeke, will he guide in Iudgement, and teach the humble his waies.The ſence is.THey tPſal. 25.10. All the pathes of the Lord are mercy and truth, vnto ſuch as keepe his couenaunt and hiverſe 10. All the pathes of the Lord, are mercy and truth, to them that keepe his couenant and his t11 For thy name ſake, O Lord, be mercifull to mine iniquitie: for it is great.THis is a prayer of thPſal. 25.12. What man is hee that feareth the Lord? Him wil he teach the way that he ſhall chuſe.The13 His ſoule ſhall dwell at eaſe, & his ſeede ſhall inherite the land.The ſence therof is this.THey Pſal. 25.14. The ſecrete of the Lord is reuealed to them that feare him, & his couenant to giue them15 Mine eyes are euer towardes the Lord: for he will bring my feete out of the net.The ſence thereofPſal. 25. verſe 16. Turne thy face vnto me, and haue mercy vpon mee: for I am deſolate and poore.The17. The ſorrowes of my heart are enlarged, draw mee out of my troubles.The ſence is.SO great, O LordThe ſecond part of the eight Sermon.Pſal. 25.18. Looke vpon mine affliction and my trauaile, and for19. Behold mine enemies, for they are many, and they hate mee with cruell hatred.The ſence is:O LordPſalme. 25.20. Keepe my ſoule, & deliuer me, let me not be confounded; for I truſt in thee.The ſecon21. Let mine vprightnes and equitie preſerue me: for my hope is in thee.The ſence is:O Lord my God, Pſalm. 25.22. Deliuer Iſrael, O God, out of all his troubles.The 2. part of the tēth Sermon.THe Pro
1. The ſixth Sermon vpon the 25. Pſalme, the 13. & 14. verſes.
1 Vnto thee, O Lord, lift I vp my ſoule.THe ſence is, Many are the ſlaunders, & great are ye iniurieThe 2. part of the firſt Sermon.Pſalm. 25.2. My God, I truſt in thee, let me not be confounded, let Pſal. 25.3. So all that hope in thee, ſhall not be aſhamed: but let them be part of confounded, that4. Shew me thy waies, O Lord, & teach me thy pathes.The Paraphraſe, that is:GRant, O Lord, that I maPſal. 25.5. Lead me forth in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my ſaluation, in thee Pſal. 25.6. Remember, O Lord, thy tender mercies, and thy louing kindneſſe: For they haue beene for 7 Remember not the ſins of my youth, nor my rebellions, but according to thy kindneſſe remember me, Pſal. 25.8. Gracious and righteous is the Lord, therefore will he teach ſinners in the way.The ſence9 Them that be meeke, will he guide in Iudgement, and teach the humble his waies.The ſence is.THey tPſal. 25.10. All the pathes of the Lord are mercy and truth, vnto ſuch as keepe his couenaunt and hiverſe 10. All the pathes of the Lord, are mercy and truth, to them that keepe his couenant and his t11 For thy name ſake, O Lord, be mercifull to mine iniquitie: for it is great.THis is a prayer of thPſal. 25.12. What man is hee that feareth the Lord? Him wil he teach the way that he ſhall chuſe.The13 His ſoule ſhall dwell at eaſe, & his ſeede ſhall inherite the land.The ſence therof is this.THey Pſal. 25.14. The ſecrete of the Lord is reuealed to them that feare him, & his couenant to giue them15 Mine eyes are euer towardes the Lord: for he will bring my feete out of the net.The ſence thereofPſal. 25. verſe 16. Turne thy face vnto me, and haue mercy vpon mee: for I am deſolate and poore.The17. The ſorrowes of my heart are enlarged, draw mee out of my troubles.The ſence is.SO great, O LordThe ſecond part of the eight Sermon.Pſal. 25.18. Looke vpon mine affliction and my trauaile, and for19. Behold mine enemies, for they are many, and they hate mee with cruell hatred.The ſence is:O LordPſalme. 25.20. Keepe my ſoule, & deliuer me, let me not be confounded; for I truſt in thee.The ſecon21. Let mine vprightnes and equitie preſerue me: for my hope is in thee.The ſence is:O Lord my God, Pſalm. 25.22. Deliuer Iſrael, O God, out of all his troubles.The 2. part of the tēth Sermon.THe Pro
1. The ſeuenth Sermon vpon the 25. Pſalme, the 15, and 16. verſes.
1 Vnto thee, O Lord, lift I vp my ſoule.THe ſence is, Many are the ſlaunders, & great are ye iniurieThe 2. part of the firſt Sermon.Pſalm. 25.2. My God, I truſt in thee, let me not be confounded, let Pſal. 25.3. So all that hope in thee, ſhall not be aſhamed: but let them be part of confounded, that4. Shew me thy waies, O Lord, & teach me thy pathes.The Paraphraſe, that is:GRant, O Lord, that I maPſal. 25.5. Lead me forth in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my ſaluation, in thee Pſal. 25.6. Remember, O Lord, thy tender mercies, and thy louing kindneſſe: For they haue beene for 7 Remember not the ſins of my youth, nor my rebellions, but according to thy kindneſſe remember me, Pſal. 25.8. Gracious and righteous is the Lord, therefore will he teach ſinners in the way.The ſence9 Them that be meeke, will he guide in Iudgement, and teach the humble his waies.The ſence is.THey tPſal. 25.10. All the pathes of the Lord are mercy and truth, vnto ſuch as keepe his couenaunt and hiverſe 10. All the pathes of the Lord, are mercy and truth, to them that keepe his couenant and his t11 For thy name ſake, O Lord, be mercifull to mine iniquitie: for it is great.THis is a prayer of thPſal. 25.12. What man is hee that feareth the Lord? Him wil he teach the way that he ſhall chuſe.The13 His ſoule ſhall dwell at eaſe, & his ſeede ſhall inherite the land.The ſence therof is this.THey Pſal. 25.14. The ſecrete of the Lord is reuealed to them that feare him, & his couenant to giue them15 Mine eyes are euer towardes the Lord: for he will bring my feete out of the net.The ſence thereofPſal. 25. verſe 16. Turne thy face vnto me, and haue mercy vpon mee: for I am deſolate and poore.The17. The ſorrowes of my heart are enlarged, draw mee out of my troubles.The ſence is.SO great, O LordThe ſecond part of the eight Sermon.Pſal. 25.18. Looke vpon mine affliction and my trauaile, and for19. Behold mine enemies, for they are many, and they hate mee with cruell hatred.The ſence is:O LordPſalme. 25.20. Keepe my ſoule, & deliuer me, let me not be confounded; for I truſt in thee.The ſecon21. Let mine vprightnes and equitie preſerue me: for my hope is in thee.The ſence is:O Lord my God, Pſalm. 25.22. Deliuer Iſrael, O God, out of all his troubles.The 2. part of the tēth Sermon.THe Pro
1. The eighth Sermon vpon the 25. Pſalme. 17. & 18. verſes.
1 Vnto thee, O Lord, lift I vp my ſoule.THe ſence is, Many are the ſlaunders, & great are ye iniurieThe 2. part of the firſt Sermon.Pſalm. 25.2. My God, I truſt in thee, let me not be confounded, let Pſal. 25.3. So all that hope in thee, ſhall not be aſhamed: but let them be part of confounded, that4. Shew me thy waies, O Lord, & teach me thy pathes.The Paraphraſe, that is:GRant, O Lord, that I maPſal. 25.5. Lead me forth in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my ſaluation, in thee Pſal. 25.6. Remember, O Lord, thy tender mercies, and thy louing kindneſſe: For they haue beene for 7 Remember not the ſins of my youth, nor my rebellions, but according to thy kindneſſe remember me, Pſal. 25.8. Gracious and righteous is the Lord, therefore will he teach ſinners in the way.The ſence9 Them that be meeke, will he guide in Iudgement, and teach the humble his waies.The ſence is.THey tPſal. 25.10. All the pathes of the Lord are mercy and truth, vnto ſuch as keepe his couenaunt and hiverſe 10. All the pathes of the Lord, are mercy and truth, to them that keepe his couenant and his t11 For thy name ſake, O Lord, be mercifull to mine iniquitie: for it is great.THis is a prayer of thPſal. 25.12. What man is hee that feareth the Lord? Him wil he teach the way that he ſhall chuſe.The13 His ſoule ſhall dwell at eaſe, & his ſeede ſhall inherite the land.The ſence therof is this.THey Pſal. 25.14. The ſecrete of the Lord is reuealed to them that feare him, & his couenant to giue them15 Mine eyes are euer towardes the Lord: for he will bring my feete out of the net.The ſence thereofPſal. 25. verſe 16. Turne thy face vnto me, and haue mercy vpon mee: for I am deſolate and poore.The17. The ſorrowes of my heart are enlarged, draw mee out of my troubles.The ſence is.SO great, O LordThe ſecond part of the eight Sermon.Pſal. 25.18. Looke vpon mine affliction and my trauaile, and for19. Behold mine enemies, for they are many, and they hate mee with cruell hatred.The ſence is:O LordPſalme. 25.20. Keepe my ſoule, & deliuer me, let me not be confounded; for I truſt in thee.The ſecon21. Let mine vprightnes and equitie preſerue me: for my hope is in thee.The ſence is:O Lord my God, Pſalm. 25.22. Deliuer Iſrael, O God, out of all his troubles.The 2. part of the tēth Sermon.THe Pro
1. The ninth Sermon vpon the 25. Pſalme. verſes 19, 20.
1 Vnto thee, O Lord, lift I vp my ſoule.THe ſence is, Many are the ſlaunders, & great are ye iniurieThe 2. part of the firſt Sermon.Pſalm. 25.2. My God, I truſt in thee, let me not be confounded, let Pſal. 25.3. So all that hope in thee, ſhall not be aſhamed: but let them be part of confounded, that4. Shew me thy waies, O Lord, & teach me thy pathes.The Paraphraſe, that is:GRant, O Lord, that I maPſal. 25.5. Lead me forth in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my ſaluation, in thee Pſal. 25.6. Remember, O Lord, thy tender mercies, and thy louing kindneſſe: For they haue beene for 7 Remember not the ſins of my youth, nor my rebellions, but according to thy kindneſſe remember me, Pſal. 25.8. Gracious and righteous is the Lord, therefore will he teach ſinners in the way.The ſence9 Them that be meeke, will he guide in Iudgement, and teach the humble his waies.The ſence is.THey tPſal. 25.10. All the pathes of the Lord are mercy and truth, vnto ſuch as keepe his couenaunt and hiverſe 10. All the pathes of the Lord, are mercy and truth, to them that keepe his couenant and his t11 For thy name ſake, O Lord, be mercifull to mine iniquitie: for it is great.THis is a prayer of thPſal. 25.12. What man is hee that feareth the Lord? Him wil he teach the way that he ſhall chuſe.The13 His ſoule ſhall dwell at eaſe, & his ſeede ſhall inherite the land.The ſence therof is this.THey Pſal. 25.14. The ſecrete of the Lord is reuealed to them that feare him, & his couenant to giue them15 Mine eyes are euer towardes the Lord: for he will bring my feete out of the net.The ſence thereofPſal. 25. verſe 16. Turne thy face vnto me, and haue mercy vpon mee: for I am deſolate and poore.The17. The ſorrowes of my heart are enlarged, draw mee out of my troubles.The ſence is.SO great, O LordThe ſecond part of the eight Sermon.Pſal. 25.18. Looke vpon mine affliction and my trauaile, and for19. Behold mine enemies, for they are many, and they hate mee with cruell hatred.The ſence is:O LordPſalme. 25.20. Keepe my ſoule, & deliuer me, let me not be confounded; for I truſt in thee.The ſecon21. Let mine vprightnes and equitie preſerue me: for my hope is in thee.The ſence is:O Lord my God, Pſalm. 25.22. Deliuer Iſrael, O God, out of all his troubles.The 2. part of the tēth Sermon.THe Pro
1. The tenth Sermon vpon the 25. Pſalme. verſes, 21.22.
1 Vnto thee, O Lord, lift I vp my ſoule.THe ſence is, Many are the ſlaunders, & great are ye iniurieThe 2. part of the firſt Sermon.Pſalm. 25.2. My God, I truſt in thee, let me not be confounded, let Pſal. 25.3. So all that hope in thee, ſhall not be aſhamed: but let them be part of confounded, that4. Shew me thy waies, O Lord, & teach me thy pathes.The Paraphraſe, that is:GRant, O Lord, that I maPſal. 25.5. Lead me forth in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my ſaluation, in thee Pſal. 25.6. Remember, O Lord, thy tender mercies, and thy louing kindneſſe: For they haue beene for 7 Remember not the ſins of my youth, nor my rebellions, but according to thy kindneſſe remember me, Pſal. 25.8. Gracious and righteous is the Lord, therefore will he teach ſinners in the way.The ſence9 Them that be meeke, will he guide in Iudgement, and teach the humble his waies.The ſence is.THey tPſal. 25.10. All the pathes of the Lord are mercy and truth, vnto ſuch as keepe his couenaunt and hiverſe 10. All the pathes of the Lord, are mercy and truth, to them that keepe his couenant and his t11 For thy name ſake, O Lord, be mercifull to mine iniquitie: for it is great.THis is a prayer of thPſal. 25.12. What man is hee that feareth the Lord? Him wil he teach the way that he ſhall chuſe.The13 His ſoule ſhall dwell at eaſe, & his ſeede ſhall inherite the land.The ſence therof is this.THey Pſal. 25.14. The ſecrete of the Lord is reuealed to them that feare him, & his couenant to giue them15 Mine eyes are euer towardes the Lord: for he will bring my feete out of the net.The ſence thereofPſal. 25. verſe 16. Turne thy face vnto me, and haue mercy vpon mee: for I am deſolate and poore.The17. The ſorrowes of my heart are enlarged, draw mee out of my troubles.The ſence is.SO great, O LordThe ſecond part of the eight Sermon.Pſal. 25.18. Looke vpon mine affliction and my trauaile, and for19. Behold mine enemies, for they are many, and they hate mee with cruell hatred.The ſence is:O LordPſalme. 25.20. Keepe my ſoule, & deliuer me, let me not be confounded; for I truſt in thee.The ſecon21. Let mine vprightnes and equitie preſerue me: for my hope is in thee.The ſence is:O Lord my God, Pſalm. 25.22. Deliuer Iſrael, O God, out of all his troubles.The 2. part of the tēth Sermon.THe Pro
**Types of content**

  * Oh, Mr. Jourdain, there is **prose** in there!

There are 1 **omitted** fragments! 
 @__reason__ (1) : illegible (1)  •  @__resp__ (1) : #KEYERS (1)  •  @__extent__ (1) : 2 letters (1)

**Character listing**


|Text|string(s)|codepoint(s)|
|---|---|---|
|Latin-1 Supplement|é|233|
|Latin Extended-A|ſ|383|
|Combining             Diacritical Marks|̄|772|
|General Punctuation|•|8226|
|Mathematical Operators|∣|8739|

##Tag Usage Summary##

###Header Tag Usage###

|No|element name|occ|attributes|
|---|---|---|---|
|1.|__author__|2||
|2.|__availability__|1||
|3.|__biblFull__|1||
|4.|__change__|5||
|5.|__date__|8| @__when__ (1) : 2014-11 (1)|
|6.|__edition__|1||
|7.|__editionStmt__|1||
|8.|__editorialDecl__|1||
|9.|__encodingDesc__|1||
|10.|__extent__|2||
|11.|__fileDesc__|1||
|12.|__idno__|6| @__type__ (6) : DLPS (1), STC (2), EEBO-CITATION (1), PROQUEST (1), VID (1)|
|13.|__label__|5||
|14.|__langUsage__|1||
|15.|__language__|1| @__ident__ (1) : eng (1)|
|16.|__listPrefixDef__|1||
|17.|__note__|5||
|18.|__notesStmt__|2||
|19.|__p__|11||
|20.|__prefixDef__|2| @__ident__ (2) : tcp (1), char (1)  •  @__matchPattern__ (2) : ([0-9\-]+):([0-9IVX]+) (1), (.+) (1)  •  @__replacementPattern__ (2) : http://eebo.chadwyck.com/downloadtiff?vid=$1&page=$2 (1), https://raw.githubusercontent.com/textcreationpartnership/Texts/master/tcpchars.xml#$1 (1)|
|21.|__profileDesc__|1||
|22.|__projectDesc__|1||
|23.|__pubPlace__|2||
|24.|__publicationStmt__|2||
|25.|__publisher__|2||
|26.|__ref__|1| @__target__ (1) : http://www.textcreationpartnership.org/docs/. (1)|
|27.|__revisionDesc__|1||
|28.|__seriesStmt__|1||
|29.|__sourceDesc__|1||
|30.|__title__|3||
|31.|__titleStmt__|2||


###Text Tag Usage###

|No|element name|occ|attributes|
|---|---|---|---|
|1.|__bibl__|23||
|2.|__body__|1||
|3.|__closer__|2||
|4.|__date__|1||
|5.|__dateline__|1||
|6.|__desc__|1||
|7.|__div__|35| @__type__ (35) : title_page (1), dedication (1), sermon (10), part (23)  •  @__n__ (10) : 1 (1), 2 (1), 3 (1), 4 (1), 5 (1), 6 (1), 7 (1), 8 (1), 9 (1), 10 (1)|
|8.|__epigraph__|23||
|9.|__figDesc__|1||
|10.|__figure__|1||
|11.|__front__|1||
|12.|__g__|1476| @__ref__ (1476) : char:EOLhyphen (1208), char:cmbAbbrStroke (267), char:EOLunhyphen (1)|
|13.|__gap__|1| @__reason__ (1) : illegible (1)  •  @__resp__ (1) : #KEYERS (1)  •  @__extent__ (1) : 2 letters (1)|
|14.|__head__|12||
|15.|__hi__|801| @__rend__ (76) : sup (76)|
|16.|__label__|109| @__type__ (109) : milestone (109)|
|17.|__note__|123| @__place__ (123) : margin (123)  •  @__n__ (4) : * (4)|
|18.|__p__|390| @__n__ (49) : 1 (20), 2 (14), 5 (3), 4 (2), 3 (7), 6 (2), 7 (1)|
|19.|__pb__|216| @__facs__ (216) : tcp:11412:1 (2), tcp:11412:2 (2), tcp:11412:3 (2), tcp:11412:4 (2), tcp:11412:5 (2), tcp:11412:6 (2), tcp:11412:7 (2), tcp:11412:8 (2), tcp:11412:9 (2), tcp:11412:10 (2), tcp:11412:11 (2), tcp:11412:12 (2), tcp:11412:13 (2), tcp:11412:14 (2), tcp:11412:15 (2), tcp:11412:16 (2), tcp:11412:17 (2), tcp:11412:18 (2), tcp:11412:19 (2), tcp:11412:20 (2), tcp:11412:21 (2), tcp:11412:22 (2), tcp:11412:23 (2), tcp:11412:24 (2), tcp:11412:25 (2), tcp:11412:26 (2), tcp:11412:27 (2), tcp:11412:28 (2), tcp:11412:29 (2), tcp:11412:30 (2), tcp:11412:31 (2), tcp:11412:32 (2), tcp:11412:33 (2), tcp:11412:34 (2), tcp:11412:35 (2), tcp:11412:36 (2), tcp:11412:37 (2), tcp:11412:38 (2), tcp:11412:39 (2), tcp:11412:40 (2), tcp:11412:41 (2), tcp:11412:42 (2), tcp:11412:43 (2), tcp:11412:44 (2), tcp:11412:45 (2), tcp:11412:46 (2), tcp:11412:47 (2), tcp:11412:48 (2), tcp:11412:49 (2), tcp:11412:50 (2), tcp:11412:51 (2), tcp:11412:52 (2), tcp:11412:53 (2), tcp:11412:54 (2), tcp:11412:55 (2), tcp:11412:56 (2), tcp:11412:57 (2), tcp:11412:58 (2), tcp:11412:59 (2), tcp:11412:60 (2), tcp:11412:61 (2), tcp:11412:62 (2), tcp:11412:63 (2), tcp:11412:64 (2), tcp:11412:65 (2), tcp:11412:66 (2), tcp:11412:67 (2), tcp:11412:68 (2), tcp:11412:69 (2), tcp:11412:70 (2), tcp:11412:71 (2), tcp:11412:72 (2), tcp:11412:73 (2), tcp:11412:74 (2), tcp:11412:75 (2), tcp:11412:76 (2), tcp:11412:77 (2), tcp:11412:78 (2), tcp:11412:79 (2), tcp:11412:80 (2), tcp:11412:81 (2), tcp:11412:82 (2), tcp:11412:83 (2), tcp:11412:84 (2), tcp:11412:85 (2), tcp:11412:86 (2), tcp:11412:87 (2), tcp:11412:88 (2), tcp:11412:89 (2), tcp:11412:90 (2), tcp:11412:91 (2), tcp:11412:92 (2), tcp:11412:93 (2), tcp:11412:94 (2), tcp:11412:95 (2), tcp:11412:96 (2), tcp:11412:97 (2), tcp:11412:98 (2), tcp:11412:99 (2), tcp:11412:100 (2), tcp:11412:101 (2), tcp:11412:102 (2), tcp:11412:103 (2), tcp:11412:104 (2), tcp:11412:105 (2), tcp:11412:106 (2), tcp:11412:107 (2), tcp:11412:108 (2)  •  @__rendition__ (3) : simple:additions (3)|
|20.|__q__|33||
|21.|__seg__|120| @__rend__ (11) : decorInit (11)  •  @__type__ (109) : milestoneunit (109)|
|22.|__signed__|1||
